The first topic we're going to talk
about today now that we all know how to
build a Graph API,
is authentication and authorization.
Anyone who wanna give me their
definition of authentication?
>> Authentication is proving who you are.
>> Yeah, that's a good way to put it,
authentication is proving who you are.
What about authorization?
>> Proving what you can do.
Well said yeah, basically.
So what I have here,
authentication is used to identify a user,
to determine if they
are who they say they are.
Basically, it answers the questions of,
who is this user?
Are they who they say they are?
Things like that.
That's the questions that
authentication seeks to answer.
Authorization on the other hand,
is used to determine,
usually an already authenticated user,
if they're allowed to perform certain
operations on certain resources.
So for instance, you might have an RBAC
system, role-based access control.
Where people have roles with
different permission levels,
based off different actions on different
resources, that's basically authorization.
You don't have the right
role to either perform or
delete operation on the payment resource,
something like that.
So those two work together, and
I think when people say the word auth,
generally speaking,
I think they always mean authentication.
And authorization is
usually something special.
A lot of people might not even have
authorization systems built into their
application, depending on your app,
it might not even be a thing.
But if you have any type of
multitenancy or any type of SAS app,
you probably definitely
have authorization because
people have data scopes to themselves, and
you don't want other people looking at it.
So you have to be authorized
to look at your own data.
So even though you might not explicitly
set it up, it's implicitly implied.
So let's talk about a good
auth system in GraphQL.
So for authorization, and this is just
some stuff that I've been thinking
about and
things that I've come across and seen.
So let's focus on authorization.
So a good auth system in
GraphQL with authorization.
Basically, your authorization should
never be coupled to a resolver.
Because one, how do you get that out and
use it on another resolver?
So that's gonna be kind of tough.
Authorization should provide
field level customization rules.
So I should be able to say,
on this field, I want to be able to
add some type of logic for
authorization, only for this field.
And it should be able to allow me to opt
out from authorizing my entire schema.
So I don't want to just say,
locked out of my entire schema with this
authorization custom logic, all right cuz
it would be too flexible, especially if
you have something like sign in and
sign up built into your GraphQL or API.
And no one would ever be
able to sign in or sign up,
because they wouldn't
be authorized to do it.
So you don't wanna do things like that.
You might also have some public
query that you want to expose, and
you don't want that to have any type of
authorization, or anything like that.
As far as authentication,
it's very similar to authorization.
The one thing about authentication is,
because its job is to determine if
the user is who they say they are,
and who the user is.
The resolvers need to know who the user
is in order to probably do some work,
especially if you have a multitenant app.
Almost every query you're going to have
inside of a resolver is going to be based
off like a user ID, like give me
the stuff based off this user ID,
give me this stuff based off this user ID.
So that means,
a really good authentication system
should provide the user to the resolvers.
So we don't have to worry about anything.
Otherwise, the resolver is responsible for
figuring out who the user is.
I mean, you'd have to do that for
pretty much every single resolver.
That can get pretty annoying.
Should not be coupled with a resolver,
and it is for
the same reasons authorization
shouldn't be coupled with a resolver.
Can protect some of your schema and
not all of it.
So again, we don't want to
lock down the entire schema,
because we want some things to be open for
everyone like update, like logging in,
and signing up, and stuff like that.
But we want to opt into
things that we want to.
And also, we still wanna get
down to the field level and
say only this field, we wanna be able
to lock down with authentication, and
that's the only thing that matters.
So to me, that is a good system of
authentication, authorization or
just auth in general, in GraphQL.
And I say this because I've built auth at
least 2025 times in the GraphQL system.
And it wasn't until like,
the 10th time that I start figuring out
really good patterns of like,
okay, I should start doing this.
But initially you start off in a way that
seems easy, but it just doesn't scale.